Linear Regression
 
Basic Questions:
 
1. What is Regression?

A: In statistical modeling, regression analysis is a set of statistical processes for estimating the relationships 

among variables.

2. What is a Linear Regression?

A: A Supervised Learning Algorithm used to predict the relationship between independent and 

dependent variables by examining two factors.

3. What is a Multiple Linear Regression?

A: It is a statistical technique used to predict the outcome of a response variable through several explanatory 

variables and model the relationships between them.

4. What parameters are involved in Linear Regression Model?

A: ‘m’ & ‘c’. It is very important to update the m and c values, to reach the best value that minimize the 

error between predicted value and true value.

5. What is the Cost Function (J) of Linear Regression?

A: Cost function (J) of Linear Regression is the Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE) between predicted 

Values and true value.

6. What is Gradient Descent?

A: Gradient descent is an important algorithm in Linear Regression which is used for minimizing cost 

Functions.
 
Math’s behind Linear Regression:
 
1. How to calculate Mean of a variable? / What is Mean of a variable?

A: The total sum of the values of the variable divided by the number of values gives the Mean of 

the Variable.

2. For values of x= [1, 2, 4, 3, 5]. Calculate Mean of x.

A: 3.000, where mean(x) = sum(x) / count(x)

3. Calculate Variance of Y, where Y= [1, 3, 3, 2, 5].

A: 8.800, where variance of Y = sum ((Y - mean(Y)) ^2)

4. What is Mean Square Error?

A: Mean Square Error (MSE) measures the average magnitude of the errors in a set of predictions, without 

Considering their direction.

5. When is the build Linear Regression model called most accurate?

A: When Mean Square Error (MSE) is Zero (0).

6. What is the range of Mean Square Error?

A: Mean Square Error measures the average magnitude of the errors in a set of predictions, without 

Considering their direction. Its value is always ?0.

7. Calculate Mean Square Error where Actual value Y= [1, 2, 3, 4, 5] and Predicted value Y`= [1, 

3, 3, 2, 4]

A: the Value of Mean Square Error is 0.4.
 
Performance Analysis:
 
1. Which method is used to find the best fit line for data in Linear Regression?

A: Least Square Error. In linear regression, we try to minimize the least square errors of the model to 

Identify the line of best fit.

2. Tell something about outliers in linear regression.

A: The slope of the regression line will change due to outliers in most of the cases. So Linear Regression is 

Sensitive to outliers.

3. Which method is used for predicting continuous dependent variable?

A: Linear Regression is used for predicting Continuous dependent variable.
 
Applications:
 
1. How does Linear Regression plays its role in Economics?

A: Linear regression is the predominant empirical tool in economics. It is used to predict consumption 

Spending, fixed investment spending, inventory investment, purchases of a country’s exports, spending on 

Imports, the demand to hold liquid assets, labor demand, and labor supply.

2. Can Linear Regression be applicable in the stream of Biology?

A: Linear regression is used to model causal relationships between parameters in biological systems.

3. How do Finance Platform use Linear Regression?

A: Capital price asset model uses linear regression to analyze and quantify the systematic risks of an 

Investment.

4. Which method can be used to generate insights on consumer behavior, understanding business and factors 

Influencing profitability?

A: Linear Regression is used to generate insights on Customer Behavior.
 
 

