Logistic Regression
 
Basics of classification:
 
1.       What is Logistic Regression?

A: It is a Machine Learning classification algorithm that is used to predict the probability of a categorical dependent variable.  

2. In logistic regression, the dependent variable can be?

A: Dependent variable is a binary variable that contains data coded as 1 or 0.

3. What is the difference between linear and logistic regression?

A: Linear Regression can have any one of an infinite number of possible values. In logistic regression, the 

outcome (dependent variable) has only a limited number of possible values. Logistic regression is used 

when the response variable is categorical in nature. Linear regression is used when your response variable 

is continuous.

4. What does a sigmoid function do?

A: It is used in neural networks to give logistic neurons real-valued output that is a smooth and bounded 

function of their total input. It also has the added benefit of having nice derivatives which make learning 

the weights of a neural network easier.

5. What is the range of the output values for a sigmoid function?

A: Sigmoid functions have domain of all real numbers, with return value monotonically increasing most 

often from 0 to 1 or alternatively from ?1 to 1, depending on convention.
 
Maths behind Logistic Regression:

1. What is a Logistic function?

A: Logistic Function is f(z) = 1/(1+e -z ).

2. What is the range of values of a logistic function?

A: The values of a logistic function will range from 0 to 1. The values of Z will vary from -infinity to 

+infinity

3. What is precision?

A: Precision is the proportion of true positives out of predicted positives. It is the accuracy of the prediction. 

It is also known as the ‘positive predictive value’. Precision = TP/TP+FP

4. What is Recall?

A: Recall or TPR (True Positive Rate) refers to the ratio of positives correctly predicted from all the true 

labels. It is the frequency of correctly predicted true labels. TPR = TP/TP+FN

5. What is F-Measure?

A: It is the harmonic mean of precision and recall. In some cases, there will be a trade-off between the 

precision and the recall. In such cases, the F-measure will drop. It will be high when both the precision and 

the recall are high. Depending on the business case at hand and the goal of data analytics, an appropriate 

metric should be selected. F-measure = 2 X (Precision X Recall) / (Precision + Recall)
 
Performance Analysis:
 
1. Which method do we use to best fit the data in Logistic Regression?

A: Logistic regression uses maximum likely hood estimate for training a logistic regression.

2.  What is the Maximum Likelihood Estimator (MLE)?

A: MLE is a statistical approach to estimating the parameters of a mathematical model.

3.  Which is the best method to analyze the performance of Logistic Regression?

A: A model with minimum AIC value is the best method to analyze the performance of Logistic Regression.

4.  What is AIC value in logistic regression?

A: The Akaike information criterion (AIC) is an estimator of the relative quality of statistical models for a 

given set of data. Given a collection of models for the data, AIC estimates the quality of each model, relative 

to each of the other models.

5.  Which algorithm do we use for Variable Selection?

A: In case of LASSO (Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator), we apply absolute penality, after 

increasing the penality in LASSO some of the coefficient of variables may become zero.
 
Applications:
1. Based on bank customer history, predicting whether to give loan or not can be solved using which type of classification?
A: Using Binary Classification, loan grant prediction can be solved.
2. Based on color intensities, prediction of color type can be solved using which type of classification?
A: Using Multi Classification, color type prediction can be done.
3. Weather information/prediction is obtained by using which type of classification?
A: Using Binary Classification, Weather prediction can be done.

